---
title: "Roadmap to learn basic Front-End Web Development in 2021"
date: 2020-07-19T12:41:48+05:30
draft: false
author: "Vivek Mishra"
description: "This is a pathway I took to learn to make attractive websites and responsive websites from scratch. All the resources listed here will be available for free on Internet & you need not pay a buck for anything."
tags: ["Beginner", "Web Development", "Career"]
---

This is a pathway I took to learn to make attractive websites and responsive websites from scratch. All the resources listed here will be available for free on Internet & you need not pay a buck for anything.

Note: This is not a site builder guide. We will be talking about coding!

<br>
## 1. HTML & CSS

You cannot write the content on a website without the knowledge of HTML. It tells you how to place simple texts and images on screen.
You can chcek out [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_intro.asp) page.
Recommended tutorial to learn HTML5:

{{< youtube qz0aGYrrlhU >}}
<br>

After you have learnt the basic tags of HTML, you need to learn how to style your texts and images so that they become responsive to any
device screen out there. That's exactly what CSS does!

Guide to learn CSS3 from scratch:
{{< youtube D-h8L5hgW-w >}}

<br>
## 2. Bootstrap
 
There are millions of lines of code that are common to almost every website. For example, spacing across the container of the page. Writing
the same code again and again for every website can be time consuming.

A front-end framework such as [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) takes all such content and makes it pre designed for you, so you can just import it in your site and focus on things
required further.

{{< youtube 4sosXZsdy-s >}}

<br>
## 3. JavaScript

JavaScript is used to render a little complex & dynamic part of websites such as alerts, dialog boxes, modals and more.
It is one of the most popular languages in the world today. Learning even the basics of JS can make you capable to design complex websites.

It will also introduce you to the basics of JS dependent back-end frameworks like NodeJS. Recommended course:

{{< youtube g7T23Xzys-A >}}

<br>
[JavaScript.info](https://javascript.info/) is also a great place to see examples and dive in deeper into concepts such as classes, functions, DOM and much more.

<br>
## 4. Congrats!

If you followed along till now and practiced everything by yourself, you should be capable of making responsive & modern looking websites in less than a day!

Although if not, you might wanna go back and follow the whole tutorial. I will try and take this forward and make roadmap which I followed to become a complete Front-End Engineer using React. Stay tuned! 😉